- # am / is / are
-
- Positive
	- am
		- I am a student.
		- I'm hungry right now.
		- I'm cold.
		- I'm tried but I am not hungry.
		- I'm a medical student.
	- is
		- He is a doctor.
		- Sri Lanka is an island.
		- My father is a police man.
		- She's 18 years old.
		- Here's your key. 'Thank you"
	- are
		- We are children.
		- They're football playes.
		- These houses are not very big.
		- My sister and I are good swimmers.
		- These bags are heavy.
	-
- Negative
	- am / ain't
		- I am not a engineering student.
		- I ain't thirsty.
		- I'm not a good teacher.
		- I am not tired.
		- I ain't a good piano player.
		- I'm not instersting in poltics.
	- is not / isn't
		- He is not a good reader.
		- She isn't a nurse.
		- It isn't a good car.
		- Rome isn't in Spain.
		- It isn't warm today.
	- are not / aren't
		- We are not teachers.
		- You aren't very tall.
		- These houses aren't very big.
		- My brother and I aren't good swimmers.
		- Black and red aren't my favourite colours.
-
- ## My Self
- My name is plr. I'm 25 years old. I ain't married. I am a student. My favourites colours are blue and green. I am interested in learning Information Technology.
-
- # am / is / Are (Questions)
- Positive Questions ?
	- Am?
		- Am I late?
		- Am I hansome?
		- Am I look good?
		- Am I doctor now?
		- Am I quick?
	- Is?
		- Is he a doctor?
		- Is she a good swimmer?
		- Is your job interesting?
		- Is Linda form London?
		- Is she have a boyfriend?
	- are ?
		- Are you a student?
		- Are you good at math?
		- Are they farmers?
		- Why are you late?
		- How much are these apples?
		-
- Negative Questions ?
	- Is not / isn't
		- Is not your friend English?
		- Isn't she married?
		- Isn't he your friend?
		- Isn't she your girlfriend?
		- Isn't he Asian?
	- are not / aren't
		- Are not we champions?
		- Aren't they players?
		- Aren't you clever?
		- Aren't you a teacher?
		- Aren't we Asians?
		-
- #  I am Doing (Present Continuous)
	- am
		- Please be quite, I am working now.
		- I am reading a book.
		- I am playing computer games.
		- I am typing right now.
		- I am wearing a shirt.
	- is
		- He is reading a newspaper.
		- She is dancing right now.
		- It is sitting on the table.
		- Ana is eating an apple.
		- Paul is singing a song.
	- are
		- They are playing football.
		- They are waiting in line.
		- They are having breakfast.
		- We are playing cricket.
		- You are watching TV.
- not
	- am
		- I am not reading a book right now.
		- I am not washhing hair.
		- I am not  playing video games.
		- I am not watching a movie.
		- I am not riding a bike.
	- is
		- He isn't reading a novel.
		- She isn't sitting on the table.
		- It isn't walking.
		- It isn't raining now.
		- John isn't listening to music.
	- are
		- You aren't studying hard.
		- They aren't playing guitar.
		- We aren't playing hard enough.
		- You aren't building a house.
		- They aren't having dinner.
- # are you doing (present continuous questions)
-
- Positive Questions
	- Is
		- Is that clock working?
		- Is it raining? No, not at the moment.
		- Is Ann coming today?
		- Is your sister flighting today?
		- Is he crying now ?
		- What is Lisa cooking?
	- Are
		- Are you watching it?
		- Are you going now?
		- What are you doing?
		- Are you writing a letter?
		- Where are your friends going?
	-
	- Are you watching TV? No, I'm not.
	- Are you wearing a watch ? Yes, I am
	- Is it raining? No, It isn't
	- Are you sitting on the floor? Yes, I am
	- Are you feeling well? Yes, I am
	-
- # I do / work / like etc. (present simple)
-
- I / we / you / they
	- They live in a very big house.
	- We play cricket everyday.
	- I often play football.
	- We always have dinner at 9.
	- Children usually like chocolate.
	- Shoes are expensive. They cost a lot of money
	- I sleep 10 o'clock everyday.
	- We wash our clothes every Saturday.
	- I go to church every Sunday morning.
	- They eat ice-cream. You want some.
- he / she / it
	- He plays piano.
	- She eats a lot of food.
	- He sleeps eight hours a night.
	- Lisa speaks four languages.
	- Peter watches his hair twice a week.
	- Water boils at 100 degrees Celsius.
	- Julia and I are good friends. I like her and she likes me.
	- My job is very interesting. I meet new people every day.
	- The City Museum closes at 5 o'clock in the evening.
	- Tina is a teacher. She teaches music for children.
	-
- Write Sentences about yourself.
	- I never watch television.
	- I often read a book in bed.
	- I usually getup 4  o'clock everyday.
	- I sometimes go to work by bus.
	- I usually drink coffee every morning.
-
- # I don't (present simple negative)
-
- I / we / you / they
	- I don't play piano very well.
	- They don't know my phone number.
	- You don't do the same thing every day.
	- We don't work very hard.
	- Bill and Rose don't like boxing.
	- I don't like my job. It is very boring.
	- They like films but they don't go to the cinema very often.
	- I don't like to wear hats.
	- They don't use meat for their foods.
	- We don't know about it.
- he / she / it
	- Jane doesn't play piano very well.
	- He doesn't have a bath in every day.
	- Carol doesn't like classical music.
	- Paul has a cat but he doesn't use it very often.
	- Amanda is married but she doesn't wear a ring.
	- Sue is a very quite person. She doesn't talk very much.
	- Jim drinks coffee. But He doesn't like to drink tea.
	- It's not a very expensive hotel. It doesn't cost much to stay there.
	- Mark is a vegetarian. He doesn't eat meat.
	- Monica doesn't see her phone in the bag.
	-
- Write about yourself.
	- I don't watch TV very often.
	- I don't go to the theatre very often.
	- I often ride a bicycle.
	- I don't eat in restaurants very often.
	- I don't travel by train very often.